Nijo Castle is a large flatland castle surrounded by a moat with high stone walls. Inside the walls are two palaces known as Ninomaru and Honmaru.

The Ninomaru Palace was the Kyoto home of the Tokugawa Shoguns who ruled Japan in the Edo-era. It is laid out as a series of interconnected buildings with rooms that are ornately decorated in gold leaf. Amongst these rooms are large halls where the shogun received guests and private quarters that were off limits to anyone but the shogun and his female attendants. Some of the floors of the palace make a unique chirping sound when you walk on them. These are known as nightingale floors, designed as a defense against ninja assassins.

Ninomaru Palace originally dated to 1626 but it burned down twice in the 18th century. The current structures were built in 1788. Another notable architectural feature of the palace is its ornately decorated Chinese style entrance gate known as Karamon.

The buildings of the Honmaru Palace are usually closed to the public but it's possible to explore its grounds. The palace was once owned by the Emperor and was relocated from a site known as Katsura Palace. It is currently surrounded by a secondary moat system. The word honmaru means "main circle of defense" and is a reference to the moat. The site once included a castle keep but this also burned down in the 18th century. The stone foundation of the keep can still be viewed on the castle grounds.

After the fall of the Shogun at the end of the Edo-era, the site was updated with the Imperial chrysanthemum seal, the seal of the Emperor. It was once decorated with the Tokugawa seal. Nijo Castle is the largest surviving palace of the Tokugawa Shoguns as Edo Castle in Tokyo was destroyed in a 1873 fire. It's designated a World Heritage Site.

Each of the palaces at Nijo Castle are surrounded by a small garden. The castle also has sakura of both early and late blooming varieties that are designed to maximize the cherry blossom season at the castle. As a result, hanami at Nijo Castle begins in late March and lasts about a month. The castle also has an area of plum blossoms and trees selected for their autumn colors such as Gingko and Maple. 



Kiyomizudera is one of the largest and oldest temple complexes in Kyoto founded in 778 that has a unique character about it.

It's located in the hills of eastern Kyoto at the site of a waterfall called Otowa that is considered sacred. The temple has a dozen buildings that are dedicated to a variety of gods and goddesses. Its main hall has a large elevated platform 13 meters or 42 feet high for viewing the temple's grounds and the surrounding area. The building doesn't contain a single nail yet has stood through earthquakes in the area since 1633. It's a national treasure of Japan and is a prime example of the skill of Edo-era Japanese carpenters.

The temple has attracted large numbers of tourists since the 17th century. It was once believed that if you jumped off the main hall's platform that you'd be granted a wish. According to local folklore, a total of 234 people tried it and 200 survived. Jumping off the stage is now strictly prohibited.

Kiyomizudera still offers a variety of rituals that are thought to be lucky. For example, Jishu Shrine, one of the temple's buildings, is dedicated to love and matchmaking. There are two stones out front of the shrine 18 meters, or 59 feet apart. It is said that if you can walk from one to the other with your eyes shut you will find love.

The main lucky feature of the temple is a fountain sourced from the Otowa waterfall. The fountain offers three streams from which to drink that are said to offer longevity, success at school and luck in love. It's considered greedy and thus generally unlucky to drink from all three so people have to choose one.

Kiyomizudera is surrounded by trees and is known for its autumn leaves. The temple is occasionally open at night with excellent illumination effects. Another attraction of the temple are its small restaurants that ofter Buddhist snacks such as yudofu, a dish of tofu in hot water.

The streets leading to the temple, an area known as the Higashiyama district of Kyoto, are filled with old shops that have been serving the tourist trade in the area for hundreds of years. Most sell either snacks or souvenirs. There are also several kimono shops in Higashiyama that offer Geisha makeovers.

The priests who run the temple founded their own sect of Japanese Buddhism in 1965. They occasionally hold rituals and ceremonies that appear somewhat mysterious, often involving masks. 



Fushimi Inari Taisha is a large shrine known for its pathways lined with thousands of torii gates.

Each gate is inscribed with the name of the business or individual who donated it. The gates are refreshed regularly and cost up to 1 million yen each.

Fushimi Inari Taisha is dedicated to the popular Goddess Inari who is associated with two of Japan's favorite things: rice and business. It's an extremely popular place amongst local business owners to pray for success.

It is believed that foxes are the messengers of Inari or that she appears as a fox herself from time to time. As a result, the shrine has many statues of foxes. It is thought that aburaage fried tofu is the favorite food of foxes and this is occasionally presented as an offering at the shrine. Most of the restaurants in the area also serve it.

Fushimi Inari Taisha is the head shrine of all Inari Shrines that number as many as 32,000 in Japan. It was founded in the year 711 and is one of the oldest sites in Kyoto.

The shine's pathways lined with vermillion torii gates are amongst the most visually stunning sights in Japan. The shrine also has several attractive old buildings that are lit at night.

The shrine's pathways extend far into the hills behind the shrine for about 4 kilometers representing a hike of approximately 2 hours. Along the way there are several small shrines, restaurants and two observation points with a view of Kyoto. The torii gates continue up the path but get smaller and fewer as the trail progresses. Most people stop at an observation point about halfway up the trail known as Yotsutsuji Intersection.

Fushimi Inari Taisha is one of the few spots in Kyoto that's equally busy with locals and tourists. It's incredibly crowded at certain times of year such as New Years and is a good place to see local traditions. It's a also a good place to spot Miko. 




Kinkaku-ji (Temple of the Golden Pavilion) survived the Orion Wars and WWII only to be burned down by a young schizophrenic monk in 1950. 
The temple was rebuilt with a thicker coating of pure gold leaf in 1955. It's now one of Japan's most popular tourist attractions. It's also amongst the most photogenic buildings in the World. 
Kinkaku-ji (1397) was the villa of a powerful Shogun (Ashikaga Yoshimitsu). Upon his death it was converted to a Zen temple as per his wishes.

The real name of the temple is Rokuon-ji. The name Kinkaku-ji (金閣寺 - gold pavilion temple) has been the popular name for the temple for centuries.

Shogun Ashikaga Yoshimitsu's son built a temple that is architecturally similar to Kinkaku-ji. It's called Ginkaku-ji (銀閣寺 - silver pavilion temple). 




Ginkakuji, literally the Silver Pavilion Temple, is a small villa surrounded by an exquisite walking garden that includes a famous Japanese dry sand garden.

Although it's considered a temple today it was originally a retirement villa constructed in 1482 by the grandson of the shogun who constructed Kinkakuji. Both villas have very similar designs with the major difference being that Kinkakuji is covered in gold leaf where Ginkakuji is barren unpainted wood.

Ginkakuji is unfinished. As the name of the temple suggests, it was meant to be covered in silver leaf. The founder died before completing these plans and it has remained unpainted over the centuries.

The pavilion is considered the classic example of wabi-sabi — the Japanese aesthetic of the imperfect or incomplete. The pavilion is also remarkable in that its architecture is amongst the earliest examples of a design that became the blueprint for the typical Japanese house. Many modern Japanese houses are still built to a similar design today.

The garden is also considered remarkable, particularly the sand garden. Its two main features are known as the Kogetsudai and Ginshadan. The Kogetsudai, literally Moon Viewing Sand Mound, is a stylized representation of Mount Fuji. The Ginshadan, literally Silver Sand Sea is designed to look like the ocean. The pathway around the site is intended to provide different views of the garden.

Beyond sand, the garden is surrounded by a bamboo forest and has many varieties of moss that glow with a strange green intensity. Japanese moss gardens are difficult to cultivate. It can take centuries to get the moss right. The temple has laid out samples of the different moss species with mysterious signs that once read "Very Important Moss" and "Moss The Interrupter."

Ginkakuji is in its original state and looks much like it did in the 15th century. Its sister temple, Kinkakuji burned down in 1950 and is a modern reconstruction.



Kyoto Station is a modern architectural marvel in the heart of an ancient city. It was designed by famed Japanese architect Hiroshi Hara and has won numerous architectural rewards.

Kyoto is a conservative town filled with 1000 year old temples. Reception to the modern design of Kyoto station was initially cold. However, most local residents have grown to accept its futuristic design.

The station houses dozens of train lines, a hotel, malls, a department store, a museum, a police station, a bus station and government offices all under a single roof. In the main hall, the roof reaches a height of 15 stories and is almost half a kilometer long or 1,541 feet.

The building's architecture feels as if it's challenging the laws of physics. For example, the station's long series of escalators appears to head off into the horizon with sky visible at one end of the station. It's an elusive building to try to capture in a photograph. 



The Arashiyama Bamboo Path is a short 500 meter path through the Sagano Bamboo Forest that's well maintained with attractive thatch fences complete with little doors for small animals.

The bamboo surrounding the path is regularly harvested for crafts that are available from small shops in the area. However, the bamboo is allowed to grow to its full height. The pathway is remarkably quiet at times and somewhat busy at others. It's usually possible to get a photo of the pathway empty if you wait out the crowds. The area around the path is populated with small temples and quiet streets that have a village-like atmosphere.

The forest has a very different feel depending on the weather and is arguably most attractive in the rain. On windy days, the bamboo is impressively loud as the forest bends with each gust.

The pathway is lit with traditional lanterns in December in an event known as the Arashiyama Hanatoro. 




Kyoto Tower is an observation deck built for tourists before the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. It's the tallest building in Kyoto at 131 meters, or 430 feet, due to building height restrictions in the city.

The 800 ton tower sits atop a building that offers a hotel, souvenir shops, restaurants and sento public bath in the basement.

Japan went on an unprecedented building spree just before the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. Many of the structures that were constructed were unpopular with local residents who often paid for such buildings through their taxes.

Kyoto tower was amongst the most controversial buildings ever constructed in Kyoto. The building broke height restrictions and its modern design neglected Kyoto's image as a ancient city of temples.

However, with time locals have warmed up to the tower. Its design reflects the decade in which it was constructed and has a very 1960s feel. To the locals, it's a symbol of the exuberant enthusiasm of Japan's Economic Miracle days.

Being the tallest building in the city, it offers an unobstructed view of Kyoto. 




